In 1185. the once-proud Taira clan
perished in the Inland Sea.
The victorious Yoshitsune Minamoto
should have paraded proudly
through the broad avenues
of Kyoto.
but his brother. Shogun Yoritomo.
was famed for his suspicious mind.
His advisor Kagetoki Kajiwara
falsely accused Yoshitsune of sedition
and convinced Yoritomo
to have him killed.
With no place to hide
in his brother's realm.
Yoshitsune took six retainers
dressed as mountain ascetics
and went to seek shelter
with Hidehira Fujiwara.
ruler of the semi-independent
province to the north.
Our story begins as they approach
a new barrier in Kaga province
with the unease of one
about to tread on a tiger's tail.
A TOHO PRODUCTION
THE MEN WHO TREAD
ON THE TIGER'S TAIL
Produced by MOTOHIKO ITO.
Screenplay by AKIRA KUROSAWA.
Cinematography by TAKEO ITO.
Production Design by KAZUO KUBO.
Edited by TOSHIO GOTO.
Music by TADASHI HATTORI.
Starring.
DENJIRO OKOCHI
SUSUMU FUJITA
KENICHI ENOMOTO
MASAYUKI MORI TAKASHI SHIMURA
AKITAKE KONO YOSHIO KOSUGI
DEKAO YOKOO CHIKAYOSHI NISHINA
YASUO HISAMATSU SOJI KIYOKAWA
Directed by AKIRA KUROSAWA.
Wearing the robes
of a mountain ascetic.
Wringing out dew.
From the sleeves.
May I ask
where you priests are from?
Seems like
your first time around here.
Where are you headed?
I'm just glad the weather's good.
We don't often have
such nice days.
Look.
The entire province of Kaga.
Over there is...
What's in here? It's so heavy!
Hey. what's...
"May my senses be purified!"
Silence!
Follow and be quiet.
The song of the bush warbler!
There are so many around here
you could eat them.
You there!
How much further to the barrier?
Just over a mile. sir.
Let's rest a while.
On we go.
You men sure have strong legs.
I never thought anybody
could outwalk me.
but I can't keep up with you.
Though this gentleman
seems a bit weaker.
Actually.
he's nowhere near as strong
He's like a girl.
Silence!
This path certainly is difficult.
Is there another route?
There is indeed
but if the barrier guards see us.
we'll all be killed.
Two men were cut down
just the other day.
It's quite a nuisance.
Lord Yoritomo believed
that Kajiwara fellow's slander
and fell out with his own brother.
Lord Yoshitsune.
Yoshitsune had
to flee the capital.
and the barriers
were set up to catch him.
I guess a fight with his brother
is a big deal for a shogun.
But gentlemen.
don't you think
a quarrel between brothers
could be settled simply
with a punch or two?
It's horrible.
hunting his own brother like a beast!
Poor Lord Yoshitsune.
The famed general of the Minamoto
clan has nowhere to turn.
But there's no need to worry.
They say his bodyguard. Benkei.
is incredibly strong.
so he's safe.
This Benkei fellow is a giant monk.
almost seven feet tall.
He swings a one-ton iron rod
and annihilates armies
of thousands single-handedly.
It's unbelievable!
He pulls off men's heads
like you pull up daikon radishes.
But I hear he's not real bright.
They're travelling in disguise.
but word has leaked out
Even the barrier guards know.
Pretty dumb. eh?
How are they said
to be disguised?
Let me see
I'm pretty sure I heard
they were dressed as...
Not medicine peddlers
and not pilgrims.
Now I remember
Itinerant priests!
Isn't that funny?
Someone could take you
for Yoshitsune and Benkei's retinue.
Pretty funny. huh?
Isn't that funny?
But it can't be
can it?
Don't scare me
by staring at me like that.
They know exactly
how many there are.
A seven-man party
headed by Yoshitsune.
whereas there are one two
three four five
six seven of you.
Right on the nose.
Benkei.
My lord.
Did you hear
what this porter said?
If it's true.
it will be impossible
to pass the barrier
in this disguise.
It's just an improvised barrier
guarded by a few hicks!
We can smash our way through!
Sounds like great fun!
We haven't had
a good fight in ages!
We can easily
break though that barrier.
But what about
the other barriers sure to follow?
The important thing
is to arrive at our destination.
We must pass this barrier
as peacefully as possible.
Moreover
we only have to force
our way through
if our identities are revealed.
For one thing. you are a priest.
even if a wicked one.
No one could dare
call you an impostor.
As for the rest of you
you could all pass
for wandering ascetics.
If austerities
in the mountains and plains
qualify one
as a wandering priest.
then we've all earned the right
to call ourselves that.
We have every kind
of priestly face represented.
We may be able to get by safely.
Benkei
we may be all right.
but our lord looked suspicious
even to this foolish porter.
What shall we do?
As for that
Porter!
Come here.
I don't know a thing
I won't say a word
Please spare my life.
Bring that basket here.
What's wrong with you?
Stand up.
I said stand up.
He's terrified.
Hey. Ise.
how do you cure a coward?
Leave him. Hitachibo.
He was startled.
so his legs gave out.
Startle him again
and he might stand up.
On your feet.
Get up
or I'll yank your head off!
You're really testing
my patience!
A crimson blossom
cannot be hidden.
Even in a garden
filled with flowers.
But a simple porter.
Plain as the mountain weeds.
Will go unnoticed.
He removed his ascetic's robes.
And donned the rags.
That the porter had worn.
His face hidden
under a sedge hat.
He leans upon a staff.
How heartbreaking to see.
This porter on tottering legs.
Walking up the hill.
How heartbreaking.
Seems his love of money
is stronger than his fear.
Breathe a word to anyone
and you'll pay!
It's not that
I just couldn't stand by and watch.
What's that?
He doesn't look
like a porter at all.
Even a blind man could see that.
First of all.
that's no way to carry a basket.
like some greedy old crone
running off in the night.
Silence!
You again?
I'm a worrier by nature
I couldn't just leave.
knowing Lord Yoshitsune is with you
I can't rest easy
until I see you past the barrier
I'd never be able to face myself.
"Even a hunter won't kill
a bird seeking refuge in his bosom."
You talk big.
"Even a chance meeting
is the product of karma."
Let me help.
You're all right.
despite your looks.
What should we do
with this fellow?
We appreciate his sentiment.
but he's an insignificant nobody.
So you won't accept my help?
Your darting to and fro
is making me dizzy!
Scram if you value your life!
But I went to check out
the barrier.
You did what?
Wait. you!
Come here!
What's this about the barrier?
It's no good.
Kajiwara's messenger
is already there.
Kajiwara's messenger?
I heard him say
that Yoshitsune's party
must have taken this path.
so the barrier guards
are on the lookout.
Impudent fool! Benkei!
Benkei.
What do we do?
Advance or retreat?
If Kajiwara's forces
are in the area.
we're as good as dead
whatever we do.
If we're trapped.
then we must break through.
We'll spare no one.
not even Yoritomo himself.
We'll break through. go to Kamakura.
and kill Kajiwara and his sons!
Well-said. Ise!
We'll kill everyone in Kamakura.
then go to Tsurugaoka Hachiman shrine
and cut our bellies open!
Don't be absurd.
I might overlook
young warriors talking like this.
but you ought to know better.
Kataoka.
If we'd been
this overzealous before.
we'd have died
many times already.
As I said earlier
this barrier is not the last.
The important thing
is what happens to our lord.
Bravery comes after that.
First of all
here's what we'll do.
We'll say
we are travelling
to solicit contributions to rebuild
the Todai temple in Nara.
I am the steward
of Kaga province.
My name is Saemon Togashi.
I am responsible for this barrier.
We are travelling
to solicit contributions
to rebuild the Todai temple.
We've been assigned
to the Hokuriku road.
and we wish to pass here.
Surely a laudable task.
However. we've been ordered
not to allow itinerant priests
to pass this barrier
I find that rather
hard to understand.
May I ask why?
Lord Yoshitsune. who has
fallen out with Lord Yoritomo.
is travelling in a group
of seven men disguised as priests.
It is Lord Yoritomo's strict order
that this barrier
be carefully protected.
This is inconvenient indeed.
I gather that you were only told
to stop those
disguised as priests.
Surely it cannot be an order
to stop all real priests
who may pass here.
What insolence!
Especially since
there are seven of you!
Please don't lose your head.
Take a closer look.
We are six itinerant priests.
And two porters.
Quiet!
An amusing fellow!
Enough talk!
As long as I'm here
to exercise my lord's command.
not a single one of you
shall pass!
You look suspicious.
no matter what you might say.
Lord Togashi
you must arrest them!
Lord Togashi!
Lord Togashi.
What are you waiting for?
These are Lord Kajiwara's orders!
Lord Yoritomo's orders!
Nothing wrong with killing
one or two of these "priests"
I order you to arrest them.
What are you waiting for?
I must say
this is quite unexpected.
Killing a servant of the Buddha
for no good reason...
It's absolutely preposterous!
Nevertheless
there's no sense in quarrelling.
If it has come to that.
we will surrender quietly.
Gentlemen.
Let us offer our last prayer.
Acala. Immovable Wisdom King.
be my witness!
In the name
of the Avatar of Kumano
may divine punishment visit us
should our pledge be false!
Om avira hum kham!
Let me be the first to be bound.
I admire your resolution.
I doubt a bogus priest
would display such bravery.
However
you said you're soliciting funds
to rebuild the Todai temple.
In that case.
you must have the prospectus.
Let me hear you read it.
You want me
to read the prospectus?
I do
Porter.
Bring that basket here.
"Hear. all ye assembled"
the autumnal moon
of Shakyamuni Buddha
is hidden behind
the clouds of nirvana.
Nobody remains to jolt us awake
from this long. dark dream
of birth. death. and rebirth.
In the not-too-distant past
there was an emperor
who embraced
the Three Jewels of the Dharma
and showed benevolence
toward his subjects.
He happened to have
an inspired dream
and for the sake
of peace in the realm
he erected a statue
of the great Vairocana
and a temple to house it.
However.
the temple was destroyed
during the turbulent Jisho era.
Our reigning emperor
deeply laments its destruction.
By imperial decree.
we are recreating
this temple of temples
by soliciting contributions
from all parts of the realm.
Those who contribute.
however small the amount
will henceforth enjoy
virtuous pleasures in this life
and find a seat
among the thousands
of sacred lotus flowers.
Bow to the Buddha!
We reverently beseech you...
That was indeed
a genuine prospectus.
However. let me ask you
a few questions
Buddhist orders
wear various robes.
but none as ostentatious
as the ones you wear now.
What is the reason for that?
It goes without saying
that just as different orders
have different regimens.
they also wear different attire.
Our ascetic practices
are oriented
at both the Womb Realm
and the Diamond Realm.
Thus we cross
steep mountains and passes.
destroying snakes
and evil animals.
out of love for humanity.
We call upon divine protection
and pray for the peace
and welfare of our land.
Therefore
inwardly we are
forgiving and merciful.
but outwardly we combat evil.
Why do you wear a peaked cap?
It symbolizes a warrior's helmet.
Our robes
symbolize suits of armour.
Your iron staff?
It is based on the staff
of Arada Kalama.
a hermit of Mount Dantaloka.
It helps us attain the merits
of the Womb and Diamond Realms
by striking the earth with it
to punish evil and heresy.
- And your sword?
- The sword of Amitabha!
That sword
may cut through things
in the world of form.
but what of the formless world
of evil spirits and ghosts?
We banish them
with the Nine-Syllable Mantra.
What is that?
The Nine-Syllable.
The Nine-Syllable Mantra
consists of:
Rin. Pyo. To. Sha. Kai.
Jin. Retsu. Zai. Zen.
When one chants this mantra
one stands reverently
and clenches one's teeth 36 times.
Then. with one's right thumb.
one draws four vertical lines
and five horizontal ones
and then shouts.
"Obey forthwith!"
All manner of devils.
apparitions. and heathens
will immediately
be delivered from evil.
If you have any further doubts
about our training
I'd be happy to answer
your questions.
No. I have nothing else to ask.
Judging from your replies.
you must be
a distinguished teacher.
To have doubted
a man of such knowledge
is the greatest error of my life.
As a gesture of apology.
I will make a contribution
to your campaign.
That is indeed commendable.
I assure you of pleasures
in this existence and the next.
You there! Prepare an offering.
Wait.
We are on our way
to the northern districts
but we will be back
in early summer.
Please keep your offering
until then.
Very well.
But we have tarried here
too long.
We shall be on our way.
Gentlemen.
Walk slowly.
Restrain your eager heart.
As if drawing back
from the viper's mouth.
Or treading on the tiger's tail!
Stop that porter!
Not that one!
The one with the sedge hat!
Wait!
What is this?
That porter resembles someone!
A resemblance between two men...
That's not unusual
I mean he looks like Yoshitsune.
What?
This porter
looks like Yoshitsune?
You weakling!
Staggering along
under such a light load.
No wonder people
think it strange.
Always lagging behind
and holding us up.
You're always
getting us in trouble.
I will tolerate it no longer!
This isn't right!
Don't be so unreasonable!
Have you learned your lesson.
you shirker?
Now get up and move!
I won't allow you to pass!
He looks more
like Yoshitsune every minute!
So you've been eyeing his basket.
Are you a thief?
Now I see why you've been
so unreasonable.
You reveal your true motives!
Barrier guard. eh?
How dare you!
This is wicked audacity indeed!
On guard!
Had this porter been Yoshitsune
none would have dared strike him.
- But Lord Togashi...
- No.
No vassal would strike
his own master.
You may pass.
Lord Togashi!
I'm the one in charge here.
What a relief!
We're safe now.
Let's rest a bit.
I must say I was truly surprised
when Benkei raised his staff.
Only Benkei could think
that quickly on his feet.
Now I see!
I thought he'd suddenly
lost his mind
I'm such a blockhead!
It was an unforgivable impiety
even if it was meant as a ruse.
Benkei
do not apologize.
May my crime cause
my arm to rot!
It is not this hand
that struck me.
It was heavenly protection.
The hand of Hachiman himself.
god of war.
I am most grateful.
Let 'em all go to hell.
including Yoritomo!
Let 'em eat shit!
Uh-oh!
I am steward Togashi's vassal
I bring you sake on his orders.
He apologizes for our discourtesy.
Much appreciated.
First. please accept
these sake cups.
Indeed. indeed.
How welcome it ls.
To receive.
A cup of human kindness.
Here. at the end.
Of the northern road to Hokuriku.
How glad I am.
To partake of the kindness.
Contained in this cup.
Another?
Very kind of you.
Who will dance?
You there. porter.
Dance to celebrate our feast.
Hurrah!
Banzai!
There lived a turtle atop a rock.
Get lost!
I too will dance
before we depart.
Even though the waterfall roars.
Even though the sun shines.
We continue on without rest.
THE END